<p>I got a cell phone yesterday.  IM me (abscondment) if you'd like the number.  This was Jessica's Christmas present to me; it wound up being free, and nearly halving her bill (since we're getting married in August, we signed up for a family plan that only costs a little bit more than what she was already paying).  So, that's pretty exciting--I'm part of the digital age now, right?  Right.</p>
<p>Of course, being an Informatics major, I was immensely interested in the way Sprint (who is our service provider) handles their ability to locate one's phone at any point in time.  On my phone, at least, the default is full disclosure--that is, any SprintVision service that wants to use your location will get it (perhaps prompting you first) and can do whatever it will with it.  I opted out, which automatically denies all parties except 911 access to my location.  This of course made me wonder about Sprint's abililty to know where I am--I don't care, of course, but one could argue that it's an infraction rights provided in the 4<sup>th</sup> Amendment: "The right of the people to be secure in their persons [...] against unreasonable searches and seizures".  Constant monitoring, even via an optional medium (a phone, which doesn't <i>need</i>to be carried), could be subpoened and used in court.  I wonder: Could that happen?  What would the court rule with regards to privacy?  Is it a violation for Sprint to record my every location?  <i>Does</i> Sprint record cell phone movement?</p>
<p>Obviously, I'm not worried enough to not have a cell phone.  I won't need to worry about Sprint monitoring or not monitoring, because I'm not going to do anything that would necessitate a subpoena of those data in the first place.</p>
<p>On an unrelated note, I have disabled comments.  I am not yet sure what the duration of this change will be; it all depends on whether I can get MT-Bayesian working again.  It pooped out two days ago, and the sheer multitude of spam comments I receive makes it impossible to win the battle of deleting them--it would be a bit like shoveling water out of the sinking Titanic with a teaspoon.  If I can get it working again, I may just re-open commenting; then again, no one except spammers seems to be using the feature currently.</p>