I've decided that if I'm ever a professor, I'm going to always have any multple choice Scantron tests I give graded and posted on the course website within an hour after the test.  I mean, seriously--I took my finals on Friday.  They could have been graded that night, but no.  And I bet that no one wanted to grade them over the weekend, either; now I have to wait until after work tonight to check again.  And I know that when I come back home, they won't be up.  But that doesn't really matter too much... I have to wait until tommorow to get my last philosophy paper, anyway.  And that is the only way I'd be able to calculate my actual grade.  So, I guess it all works out; I'm still holding out for a 4.0 in that class.  Biopsycology is the only thing that I'm really worried about; if I got a 3.9 on my English midterm after starting it the day before (and waking up at 4am the day it was due to finish it), I should *probably* be fine.  I mean, I'm going to start writing it tommorow, finish it on Wednesday, and put it in her box.  That should be good.

I'm excited about having a break for Christmas--I get to work, hang out with my new apartment-mates (meaning, my room mate and the two who live in the other room).  Also, I hope to get some reading done--I bought <a href="http://search.barnesandnoble.com/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?isbn=0060652942">The Abolition of Man</a>, <a href="http://search.barnesandnoble.com/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?isbn=0156329301">The Four Loves</a>, and <a href="http://search.barnesandnoble.com/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?isbn=0679783393">Basic Writings of Nietzsche</a> for fun.  It'll be nice to take my English class next quarter, too.

Jessica cut my hair last night.  It looks really good (at least, she likes it; that's all that matters to me).  We had fun sitting in front of the TV watching Chef Tony's Miracle Blade commercial while she trimmed it.  She's so great!  She even painted me a cool picture for me to put up in my apartment.  I'll scan it and put it up here soon.