<p>Check the extended entry to read my contribution to the report on SPAM/unsolicited commercial email (UCE).  I cover the privacy portion of the issue.</p>
<p>The full report will be posted when we I get a copy of it.</p><p><b>#.<span style="margin-left: 2em;">&nbsp;</span>PRIVACY (Brendan Ribera)</b></p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>In their 2001 ruling against an alleged spammer, the Washington State Supreme court cited this definition of spam:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>
The term "spam" refers broadly to unsolicited bulk e-mail (or "'junk' e-mail"), which "can be either commercial (such as an advertisement) or noncommercial (such as a joke or chain letter). (Kelin)
</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
One of the key facets of the Spam issue is this unsolicited nature.  From an e-mail user's point of view, Spam can be defined as received e-mails that were not requested, expected, or desired.  There is a largely personal impetus behind anti-Spam sentiment; many Spam messages are incoherent and irrelevant wastes of users' time and attention.  In the opinion of most users, Spam is by definition a violation of personal privacy.  The distinction between Spam and legitimate e-mail marketing lies in Spam's unsolicited-and therefore privacy-violating-nature.</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>A business's privacy policy is extremely important.  Mary Culnan's article "Consumer Privacy, Technology, and Policy" outlines a growing type of transaction between businesses and customers called a "second exchange".  In such a transaction, "the consumer makes a nonmonetary exchange of their personal information for value such as higher quality service and personalized offers or discounts" (Culnan 173).  Having customers' personal information provides a business with the ability to offer services that will develop repeat customers.  Most consumers, however, would not give companies access to their private information unless that exchange was regulated in some way.</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>In 1980, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) developed a set of guidelines for fair information practices.  The practices prescribed in these guidelines are intended to "provide individuals with control over the disclosure and subsequent use of their personal information" (Culnan 175).  According to Culnan, the most widely accepted definition of fair information practice in the United States consists of four elements: notice, choice, access, and security.</p>
<blockquote>
<p>
Notice means that when individuals provide personal information, they have the right to know what, if any, information is being collected and how it will be used.  Choice means that individuals should have the right to object when personal information is collected for one purpose and will be used for other unrelated purposes [...]. (Culnan 175)
</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
All four elements are crucial to fair information practice, the majority of Spam violations infringe upon the first two.  The latter two refer to the individual's ability to correct personal information and the company's obligation to limit accessing the individual's information to authorized parties.</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>The middle two elements (choice and access) are predicated upon the implementation of the first one (notice)-for this reason, we will examine the notice element in depth.  In order for an individual to have choice and access with regard to certain information, he or she must be aware of all information that is collected.  Technology, however, makes this very optional-from an implementation point of view.  O'Reilly &amp; Associates publishes a book titled Spidering Hacks: 100 Industrial-Strength Tips &amp; Tools that provides extremely helpful tools on spidering (data mining which is done by a computer program).  The book itself examines how data mining policy is a grey area-what information, it asks, should a spider collect?  As Hemenway and Calishain point out, "[m]any spiders go around searching for e-mail addresses to spam" (10).</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>Many companies require or request that users provide them with an e-mail address.  To register for services with eBay, The New York Times website, Amazon.com and many other online businesses, one must provide an e-mail address.  In addition to storage in the company's databases, some sites store this information in cookies (small text files located on a user's hard drive) to provide personalized services and advertising.  Disregarding the method by which a company has obtained a user's e-mail address, a company that wishes to offer notice to its users must reveal what the data might be used for.</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>Although there are guidelines and rules about fair information practices, there are several factors that prevent or allow a lack of implementation.  Spam is an internet based technology, and this provides its senders a certain degree of anonymity.  Indeed, in this was one of the key issues brought up in the ruling written by the Washington State Supreme Court justices.  Many spammers fake their e-mails' return addresses, domain names (e.g., the "hotmail.com" portion of e-mail address "imaspammer@hotmail.com"), and other information to make their e-mails look like legitimate messages.  Subject lines and message contents are often generated by programs and sent to large lists of e-mail addresses.  Many even filter their Internet Protocol (IP) address and reduce bandwidth costs by using computers that have been compromised with a virus to send thousands of e-mails per minute.  Such subterfuge makes it difficult or impossible for e-mail users to identify the source of the messages they receive, and difficult for governments to enforce any laws prohibiting such actions.</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>And yet, not all legal forms of e-mail advertising honor fair information practice standards.  As Sara Baase notes,</p>
<blockquote>
<p>
The Federal Trade Commission examined 674 commercial Web sites and found that 92% of them collected personal information but only 14% informed people of what they did with the information. (72)
</p></blockquote>
<p>
Even physical stores with additional web presence can blur the lines when providing proper notice to consumers.  Barnes &amp; Noble, Inc. has a specific e-mail privacy policy relating to personal information collected inside their physical stores:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>
From time to time, on limited bases, we share Personal Customer Information - never credit card information - with trustworthy third parties so that they can promote their products and services. You can opt out from receiving these communications by clicking on the link provided at the bottom of the e-mail that promotes such parties. (Barnes &amp; Noble)
</p></blockquote>
<p>
The knowledge of this practice is necessary to satisfy having given a customer proper notice.  This information, however, is not readily available in the store (it is found on the Barnes &amp; Noble corporate website)-the author notes out of personal experience that at at least one Barnes &amp; Noble, booksellers unknowingly provide information contrary to the published practice.</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>This example, along with the prior web site statistics, illustrates a common issue with business implementation of privacy policies.  Many businesses' attempts at self-regulation are narrow and ineffective.  There is profit to be made in selling customer's e-mail addresses to third-parties, and obfuscation regarding such practices is easy to create and hide behind.  If a customer subscribes to the Barnes &amp; Noble mailing list, is told that he or she will receive no unsolicited e-mails, and sees no information contrary, then that person expects to receive no such e-mails.  When he or she does receive advertisements from third-parties, those e-mails are Spam in his or her eyes.  With regards to regulating Spam, it seems that proper notice would be a huge step forward.  Many customers at Barnes &amp; Noble would not give out their e-mail address if they knew it would be shared with third-parties-not even in exchange for the coupons and in-store offers they currently receive in exchange.</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>Notice must serve choice in providing the customer the ability to say "No-I don't want to give you my e-mail" from the very beginning.  Yet, legislation in the United States has almost discounted notice from the process.  President Bush signed Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act (CAN-SPAM) in to law on December 16, 2003.  While in some ways an acknowledgement of the fact that business is failing to self-regulate in the Spam arena, this act attempts not to prevent the sending of spam, but rather to provide the ability to opt-out effectively.  The CAN-SPAM act requires messages to be labeled and to provide both the ability opt-out and the sender's physical address.  It also outlaws use of confusing or misleading subject lines and false or spoofed domain names (Sorkin).  This law may help to reduce Spam from legitimate businesses; however, there are many issues it does not resolve.  Surprising though it may seem, the Coalition Against Unsolicited Commercial E-mail (CAUCE) sent a letter in April of 2003 to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) voicing their opposition to the CAN-SPAM act.  Their letter proposes a number of technological solutions, criticizing the legislative solutions posed by this act.  Rather than providing an opt-out policy, which CAUCE purports would be ineffective, they wish "to enable network owners such as ISPs to post an electronic 'No Spamming' sign" (CAUCE).  CAUCE compares junk e-mail to junk faxes, which were prohibited in the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA), suggesting that legislation must allow for "an opt-in policy, and a private right of action" (CAUCE).</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>The comparison to fax and telephone laws is thought provoking.  Telemarketers are a nuisance, too.  With the recent National Do Not Call Registry &lt;<a href="http://www.donotcall.gov">http://www.donotcall.gov</a>&gt;, telephone users have the ability to opt-out from telephone solicitations across the board.  However, the technological gap between e-mail and telephony is quite wide; although the CAN-SPAM act authorized the FTC to establish a "do-not-e-mail" registry, the actual implementation of such a registry is-due to technical and social limiting factors-currently unlikely.  The FTC provides guides both for compliance to the CAN-SPAM act and to the Telemarketing Sales Rule (TSR).  Are the TSR and the CAN-SPAM act addressing different issues?  From a privacy standpoint, they are not.  Phone numbers, unlike e-mail addresses, are available publicly through phone books.  Under the four elements of fair information practice, obtaining information legally does not allow a company to use that information without providing notice and choice.  Unlike the TSR, current Spam legislation only protects e-mail users from repeat offence by the same company.  This protection is predicated upon two things: the company's following the rules (offering a clear and easy opt-out), and the user's action in opting-out.  While the CAN-SPAM act does prohibit sending mail to address obtained through illicit data mining and or automatic e-mail address generation (FTC The CAN-SPAM Act ... ), it does not prevent sale of e-mail addresses-and after these addresses have been passed around a number of companies, who can tell from where they came?</p>
<p><span style="margin-left: 1em;">&nbsp;</span>Unfortunately, legislation and business self-regulation alone can not always protect a user's e-mail address.  Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are beginning to sue spammers who violate the CAN-SPAM act-the cost of relaying and storing millions of Spam messages every day is enormous.  Many e-mail providers implement automatic Spam filtering and provide instructions for fighting Spam (University of Washington) to reduce their costs and protect their clientele, but these measures all assume that violation of privacy has already occurred.  A balance must be found between the legislative, the self-regulatory, and the technological facets of protection.  It is quite evident that relying wholly self-regulation would be overly idealistic; while there are many legitimate businesses who implement fair information practices, there are always individuals or companies who have not.  Laws created with the intent of protecting privacy are made outdated as technological advances occur, requiring updates.  The battle against Spam has become so grim that many simply accept a certain loss of privacy as intrinsic to e-mail use-indeed, one of the simplest methods of preventing Spam is to filter it, rather than attempting to prevent its being sent.  As the nature of the internet is unlikely to change and businesses can not be counted on to self-regulate, any increases in the privacy of e-mail (that is, preventing the sending of Spam and requiring both notice and choice for all collection and sale of e-mail addresses) seem most likely to come from legislation.  Consumers, however, continue to use e-mail despite the privacy loss.  While it is a hassle, they have made it clear that the benefits of e-mail outweigh the costs incurred by Spam. </p>
<p style="text-align:center;">References</p>
<ul>
<li>Baase, Sara.  A Gift of Fire: Social, legal, and ethical issues for computers and the Internet.  Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall, 2003.</li>
<li>Barnes &amp; Noble, Inc.  Barnes &amp; Noble, Inc. Store E-mail Privacy Policy.  July 2003.  3 June 2004. &lt;<a href="http://www.barnesandnobleinc.com/privacy.html#Store%20Email">http://www.barnesandnobleinc.com/privacy.html#Store%20Email</a>&gt;</li>
<li>Coalition Against Unsolicited Commercial E-mail (CAUCE). Pending Legislation.  May 2003.  3 June, 2004. &lt;<a href="http://www.cauce.org/legislation/">http://www.cauce.org/legislation/</a>&gt;</li>
<li>Federal Trade Commission (FTC).  <ul><li>Complying with the Telemarketing Sales Rule.  January 2004. 4 June 2004. &lt;<a href="http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/buspubs/tsrcomp.htm">http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/buspubs/tsrcomp.htm</a>&gt;</li>
<li>The CAN-SPAM Act: Requirements for Commercial E-mailers.  April 2004.  June 4 2004. &lt;<a href="http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/buspubs/canspam.htm">http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/buspubs/canspam.htm</a>&gt;</li>
<li>SPAM. 4 June 2004. &lt;<a href="http://www.ftc.gov/spam/">http://www.ftc.gov/spam/</a>&gt;</li></ul></li>
<li>Hemenway, Kevin, and Tara Calishain.  Spidering Hacks: 100 Industrial-Strength Tips &amp; Tools.  Sebastopol: O'Reilly &amp; Associates, Inc., 2003.</li>
<li>Kelin, Sabra-Anne. "State Regulation of Unsolicited Commercial E-Mail", 16 Berkeley Tech. L.J. 435, 436 &amp; n.10 (2001).</li>
<li>Municipal Research &amp; Services Center of Washington.  143 Wn.2d 824, STATE v. HECKEL.  June 2001.  1 June 2004.  &lt;<a href="http://search.mrsc.org/nxt/gateway.dll/supreme/143wn2d/143wn2d0824.htm">http://search.mrsc.org/nxt/gateway.dll/supreme/143wn2d/143wn2d0824.htm</a>&gt;</li>
<li>Sorkin, David E. Spam Laws.  Dec. 2003.  3 June 2004. &lt;<a href="http://www.spamlaws.com/federal/summ108.html#s877">http://www.spamlaws.com/federal/summ108.html#s877</a>&gt;</li>
<li>University of Washington.  Fighting Spam.  May 2004.  5 June 2004. &lt;<a href="http://www.washington.edu/computing/email/spam.html">http://www.washington.edu/computing/e-mail/spam.html</a>&gt;</li>
</ul>