<p>Finals are over.  Here's my pre-grades speculation on how I did:</p>
<ul>
 <li>ITAL 101:  I think I made a 3.5 in this class, but we'll see.  I performed really well at the beginning of the year, missed some things in the middle, and I think I did really well on the written final.  It all comes down to that, I guess.</li>
 <li>MATH 308:  This was probably my hardest class this quarter; the final felt really hard, but I know the class was curved.  I got 100% on the homework, beat the curve on the first midterm, and just missed the curve on the second midterm.  So... again, it all depends on the final.  I didn't feel very good about the final, but then again, the average for the second midterm was 8/20 (and I didn't feel good about that one, either).</li>
 <li>INFO 300:  I'm hoping for a 4.0 in this class.  My project grades were 3.5, 4.0, 4.0; my midterm was a 4.0, and I commented on the message board / participated in class a fair amount.  I felt very confident after the final, so I think I pulled it off.  We'll see.</li>
 <li>INFO 320:  I'm not sure what to think about this class.  10% of my grade was based on submitting questions about the reading(s), which I did rather halfheartedly.  However, I did really well on the assignments (60% of the grade) and <i>really</i> well (or so I think) on the Client Search Project (30% of the grade).  So, I'm expecting somewhere between a 3.8 and a 4.0.</li>
</ul>
<p>Anyway, I just woke up from a nice nap.  I'm going to read <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0679433139">The Divine Comedy</a> (Dante) and <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0891072926">How Then Should we Live?</a> (Schaeffer) during the break.  At least, this is what I <i>hope</i> to accomplish.  I'm also looking for a computer-related job on campus; my resume is being forwarded to someone for a web management opening in January, which would be a really cool thing.  That's all for now; I'll be posting again if something neato happens, or if my grades appear online.</p>