The subject of delayed gratification has been harped on incessantly in my English class.  It is the foundation upon which the teacher's and most of the students' statements concerning religion in 19<sup>th</sup> century England are built.  Here's my concern: the argument they present leaves the scope of the course and enters into a philosophical debate.  Delayed gratification in this argument refers to the consolation given to the suffering that one's present misery is nothing in comparison to heaven (see <a href="http://bible.gospelcom.net/cgi-bin/bible?passage=ROM+8:18">Romans 8:18</a>).  The teacher put the issue into clear and distinct terms just today--she said that much of the feelings conveyed in the novels we have read are based on the idea that "religion isn't an effective medicine for the working class anymore", and that this shift in ideology was a result of the Enlightenment, the Industrial Revolution, and other political and social developments.  The subtle, underlying implication, however, is that this is something that people <i>discovered to be true</i>--that the falsehood of the promise of delayed gratification was a fact rather than a belief.

The arguments presented <i>in the books</i> are strong and compelling--yet, is this conclusion their fruition?  Simply put, no.  I would argue that, whatever one believes about delayed gratification, the Bible and therefore, any true form of Christianity condemns the cold, hypocritical, self-serving, and greedy actions illustrated to the readers.  <a href="http://search.barnesandnoble.com/textbooks/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?isbn=1551110288">Pride &amp; Prejudice</a>'s Mr. Collins is a dolt; he is obviously in the clerical profession only as a means of social status.  Likewise, the rich in <a href="http://search.barnesandnoble.com/textbooks/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?isbn=1551111691">Mary Barton</a> say the same (which many of Blake's poems from <a href="http://search.barnesandnoble.com/booksearch/isbnInquiry.asp?isbn=0486252647">Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience</a> point out as flaws) thing: it doesn't matter that you're starving, that you're sick, and that we could help you; grin and bear it, and God will give you a reward.

The reality of the promised reward doesn't negate the injustice of inequality, nor would its falsehood increase the injustice.  The Bible is clear on this; God will wipe all our tears away in the life to come, and we are still required to be merciful as stated in <a href="http://bible.gospelcom.net/cgi-bin/bible?passage=Micah+6%3A6-16">Micah 6</a>.  Likewise, <a href="http://bible.gospelcom.net/cgi-bin/bible?passage=HOSEA+6">Hosea 6</a> calls for "mercy, not sacrifice, and acknowledgment of God rather than burnt offerings".

The religious characters used in these novels for negative commentary have "religion", not salvation; they are dead (in the <a href="http://bible.gospelcom.net/cgi-bin/bible?passage=James+2">James 2:14, 2:26</a> sense).  Their actions towards the poor don't undermine any promise God has made.  I don't see intent on the author's part to contradict the promise of delayed gratification; what I see is a cry against those who would manipulate and construe that promise for their own ends and by doing so push men into misery and ruin.  That is injustice; that is not doing mercy, and not walking humbly with God.