<p>Jessica and my parents planned a surprise birthday party for me.  It was surprising.  They did a really good job hiding it, and lots of people came to it.  Yay for my birthday!</p>
<p>Ricky and Ryan came; it was nice to see them.  Ricky took me to see a show that night, and it was pretty entertaining.  Here's my review of it:</p>
<blockquote>
<p><a href="http://monfrere.net">Mon Frere</a>, <a href="http://www.idiotpilot.com">Idiot Pilot</a>, and [i forgot who was headlining] played the (new) Paradox Sunday, May 30<sup>th</sup>.</p>
<p>The fact that I can't remember the name of the headlining band two days after the show might indicate something about the concert.  Don't get me wrong; it was fun.  Things were a little bit mixed up, though.</p>
<p>Mon Frere opened the show.  Frankly, they should have closed.  Their sound was really tight, and the lead singer had a great voice and great style.  It's pretty surprising that I liked them so much; I usually don't like bands with female singers.  But they were good.</p>
<p>Idiot Pilot was second.  They should have opened.  No, wait--they shouldn't have played.  Their show was stale, despite the lead singer's drama.  It was like watching a bad soap opera, only... it was supposed to be a concert.  Their sound was convoluted: Imagine the Postal Service with Thom Yorke singing, only instead of actually playing any music besides guitar/vocals (i.e., drums, keyboards, etc), everything is being run off of a Mac laptop.  Every once in a while, the guitar player screams along with the singer.  Oh, and these two guys spend all the time between singing jumping on each other and dancing suggestively--it detracted from any talent they might have had.  Aside from their cheap music (which, by the way, made me laugh as their Mac crapped out during a few songs and kept breaking up) and incompatible styles (who wants to hear soothing melodies with atrocious screaming at the same time? The way they put it together, no one should).... well, there just is no aside.  That was their show.  Mon Frere blew their socks off.</p>
<p>Kane Hoder was the closing band.  They were bland and repetitive.  Their music was well done, but there was <i>no melody</i>.  All their singer did was scream in different octaves.  BORING.</p>
<p>The crowd had thinned out by the time it was all over.  For only $3, however, it was worth it.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Well, that's that.  Time for me to disappear into finals week.</p>