<p>So, I met the beast of which I spoke earlier <a href="http://students.washington.edu/bribera/archives/000214.html">earlier</a>.  It was lurking in INFO 300.  Examine the assumptions we are told we must make when using Brenda Dervin's "Sense Making" model:</p>
<ul>
<li>Reality is neither <b>complete</b> or <b>constant</b> but rather filled with fundamental and pervasive <b>discontinities</b> or <b>gaps</b>.</li>
<li>Information is not a thing that <b>exists independent</b> of and <b>external to human beings</b> but rather is a <b>product of human observing</b>.</li>
<li>All information is <b>subjective</b>.</li>
</ul>
<p>Item 1 must be taken in context: "reality" in this sense should be read "the data a person can observe."  The underying assumption in this model is that reality is only the collection of data that a person can observe, and implicitly that all information pertains to this reality.</p>
<p>Point two assumes that meaning only exists in relationship to humans.  This precludes the existence of God.  Naturally, I would argue that information is dependent on God and God alone, and that it is a product of his creating.  There are still gaps and discontinuities between what a human being can or does observe and what actually exists; however, all data are to be viewed as a potential transfer of information from God to us.  Whether or not the gap pertaining to that transfer is bridged is irrelevant; the information still exists as knowledge in the mind of God, and exists potentially insofar as the data of God's creation reveal it.</p>
<p>I really enjoy theorizing about information science.  So far, I have found it to be a perfect combination of my interests.  Unfortunately, I have to synthesize new, Christ-centered models of thought instead of being able to learn them.  So things sometimes go a little bit slower.</p>