<p>It's been quite a while since I posted anything.  That is, of course, because I'm running for a political office.  Yeah--that's it: I'm running to be elected to the "busiest man on the planet" position in the government of some obscure country.</p>
<p>OK, I lied.  What <i>has</i> happened, any way?</p>
<ul>
<li>I've recently discovered that I am only 12 credits away from having a minor in applied mathematics.  I think that would not only be really cool, but would also look good in the eyes of any potential employers.  If I do get into <a href="http://www.cs.washington.edu">Computer Science</a>, I'll graduate with a B.S. in Informatics, a B.S. in Computer Science, and a Minor in Applied Mathematics.  That would make me a pretty strong job candidate, no?</li>
<li>My roommate's and I have formed a top-secret gentlemen's society (we shall call it... FoxWisp's Tobaccinarians).  A website profiling this secret society will emerge soon.  If my landlord opens up the ports on our router, it'll be a lot sooner than I anticipate.</li>
<li>Jessica and I have found a <a href="http://www.hollywoodschoolhouse.com/">possible location</a> for our wedding, which is very exciting.  Now to work on the guest list... *cringe*</li>
<li>Did I mention that I'm busy?  Yeah, I still am.</li>
<li>I recently halved the number of comments housed in this site's database.  That was done by training my spam filter and then deleting the spam comments--over 150 of them.  If I see the phrases "texas holdem", "buy cialis", or any other spam-related phrase again I might burst.</li>
<li>I am ecstatic that Thanksgiving is almost here.  Life is ugly, beautiful, and temporary; eternity awaits.  I'm not saying those things in a depressed way; imagine instead Ebenezer Scrooge on Christmas morning.  That's the way I feel right now--indebted and bright-eyed.</li>
</ul>