So, I'm getting $21 back in taxes.  I guess when I filled out the W2 at Noah's Bagels, I set it to take out the minimum amount possible; consequently, there was only $4.99 taken out from the start of 2003 until I stopped working there partway through the summer; the slightly smaller time that I was at Barnes &amp; Noble showed around $17 being taken out.

Oh well, I guess I get the money at one time or another, regardless.

Speaking of Barnes &amp; Noble, the latest update fixed part of the security problem that I showed them:
Specifically, <i>before</i> this update one could gain access to Windows Explorer via notepad.  The steps for infiltration were as follows:</p><ul><li>One must be logged in to the computer; the weakness is only on a workstation that has been left logged in.</li><li>With product search open (which is simply a full-screen version of Internet Explorer 5.x), open the history tab (CTRL+H)
<span style="color:red;">One can no longer do this step.</span></li><li>Right click on a history entry and select "Open in new window".</li><li>The new window will have a menu on top; view the source for the page (a menu option).
<span style="color:red;">One can no longer do this step.</span></li><li>From notepad, select File -> Open</li><li>When the Open dialogue box pops up, right click on "My Computer" and select "Explore"</li><li>Windows Explorer is now open.</li></ul><p>This posed a very real security threat; it implies access to the store's set of computers and more.

I'm glad they fixed it; one of the things that my Informatics class discussed is that *most* companies' IT departments can't/don't fix the security flaws that are shown them.  I think that part of this problem is due to usually being unable to reproduce them--not an incompetence issue, but just not thinking of it.  No one intends that notepad should be an entry point to Explorer, nor does anyone intend that new windows should be opened with the History Tab.  These are merely creative ways around supposed security.  The security guy I talked with on the Barnes &amp; Noble phone didn't understand the problem the first time it was explained to him because of two things:</p><ol><li>It was explained in a non-linear, non-technical way by my manager who didn't and probably still doesn't know how it worked.</li><li>He had heard the first half, and thought he knew where it ended (the steps he heard, however, did not end with Explorer open).</li></ol><p>After I walked him through the process over the phone, he realized what the issue was and what the risk that it posed was (probably moreso than I did; since I didn't bother exploring networks I had gained access to I have no idea what was to be had).  I think this provides an interesting revelation for those people who do discover security flaws:</p><ul><li>You need to overexplain.  Since the hole exists, no one has thought of this before.  Therefore, it is not likely that whoever receives your notice of the flaw will catch on as quickly as you want them to.  This is not to their discredit; it simply means that you have found something they overlooked and your job is to get them to look at it by <i>legal</i> means.</li><li>The key to getting a security issue fixed is getting the IT professional you talk to to reproduce the flaw.  This lets them see just how security could be breached and what could happen if it were breached.  It is their decision from that point whether or not to fix the hole.
<b>If they don't fix it, you can't publish it.  Period.</b>
Again: since reproduction is the key, you need to specify <i>everything</i> about how to perform the exploit.</li><li>If the IT people don't respond or fix the problem, it's not up to you to make them.  It is up to you not to aid potential hackers in exploiting the problem and to not go too far in showing the exploit--you don't need to prove the risk to them.  They're smart people (or they won't have their job very long) and can assess risks for themselves.</li></ul><p>Just some thoughts.</p>